= RightPopen

== DESCRIPTION

=== Synopsis

RightPopen allows running external processes aynchronously while still
capturing their standard and error outputs. It relies on EventMachine for most
of its internal mechanisms. The Linux implementation is valid for any Linux
platform but there is also a native implementation for Windows platforms.

Refer to the wiki (https://github.com/rightscale/right_popen/wikis) for up-to-date
documentation.

Also use the built-in issues tracker (https://github.com/rightscale/right_popen/issues)
to report issues.


== USAGE

=== Simple Example

  require 'rubygems'
  require 'right_popen'

  @stdout_text = ""
  @stderr_text = ""
  @exit_status = nil
  @pid = nil

  def on_pid(pid)
    @pid = pid
  end

  def on_read_stdout(data)
    @stdout_text << data
  end

  def on_read_stderr(data)
    @stderr_text << data
  end

  def on_exit(status)
    @exit_status = status
  end

  EM.run do
    EM.next_tick do
      command = "ruby -e \"puts 'some stdout text'; $stderr.puts 'some stderr text'\; exit 99\""
      RightScale.popen3(:command        => command,
                        :target         => self,
                        :environment    => nil,
                        :pid_handler    => :on_pid,
                        :stdout_handler => :on_read_stdout,
                        :stderr_handler => :on_read_stderr,
                        :exit_handler   => :on_exit)
    end
    timer = EM::PeriodicTimer.new(0.1) do
      if @exit_status
        timer.cancel
        EM.stop
      end
    end
  end

  puts "@stdout_text = #{@stdout_text}"
  puts "@stderr_text = #{@stderr_text}"
  puts "@exit_status.exitstatus = #{@exit_status.exitstatus}"
  puts "@pid = #{@pid}"


== INSTALLATION

RightPopen can be installed by entering the following at the command prompt:

  gem install right_popen


== BUILDING

Install the following RubyGems required for building:
* rake

The Windows implementation relies on a native C module which must currently be
built using the MSVC 6.0 compiler due to a dependency on the standard libraries
FILE struct provided by the "msvcrt.dll".

The gem can be built on Linux or Windows platforms and will produce separate gem
files depending on current platform. Run the following command from the
directory containing the "Rakefile":

  rake build_binary_gem


== TESTING

Install the following RubyGems required for testing:
* rspec

The build can be tested using the RSpec gem. Create a link to the installed
"spec" in your Ruby/bin directory (or ensure the bin directory is on the PATH
under Windows) and run the following command from the gem directory to execute
the RightPopen tests:

  rake spec


== LICENSE

<b>RightPopen</b>

Copyright:: Copyright (c) 2010 RightScale, Inc. 

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
